please welcome romish ranan he's one of
the most popular standups around I'm
hosting this [__] I think that all
comedians are wied slightly differently
something happened to them that has made
them an outsider in some way what is
that for you we lived in a nice house we
had a nice car all the stereotypical
things that you mark success with then
the period of 6 months it was complete
180 what was the Catalyst for that 18
well shut up mate I'm addicted to doing
stand up and it makes me better at
everything but I've got this inner voice
that is horrific it will say you're not
a very good dad you're not a very good
husband I had a one of about six panel
shows and I was in a really bad place
and I turned up to each one of them with
the steadfast belief that I was [__] at
this what happens when it does go
horrifically on stage it's
horrible they silence that never gets
easier man but you learn more from those
gigs I just need to do the best I
possibly can at this gig I'm not in
control of anything that happens after
that don't think about this goal down
the line that you're trying to get to do
this thing brilliantly if you love what
you do and you do that you're on a good
part this is such a right turn but oh
what an absolute stitch up are you
joking we're having such a nice
time hello everybody thank you for
tuning in to watch this episode honestly
an incredible episode but I have to say
thank you before we begin because we've
hit a million subscribers on this
channel now and I it's almost
Unthinkable it's I can't you know I'm
speaking for our entire team here when I
say it's genuinely genuinely Unthinkable
biggest privilege of my life to get to
do this means the world that you guys
tune in every every week uh to listen to
these episodes so I just wanted to say
thank you thank you to all of our
subscribers roughly 65% of you that
watch this channel now subscribe to the
channel which is amazing if you haven't
yet subscribed could you please do me a
little bit of a favor um I can't tell
how much it helps this Channel and how
much it's helped us to pull in amazing
amazing guests and to expand everything
within our operation
and how it's also going to help us
enable the the year that's to come and
all the plans we have some huge plans
which I'm going to be bringing to you
very shortly but if you can just do me
the one favor and hit that subscribe
button it will be tremendously
appreciated by myself and all of our
team here really really hope you enjoy
this episode thank you for being here
thank you for helping us reach this huge
master of a million subscribers let's
get on with
[Music]
it I'm so fascinated by comedian because
I find it to be an art form that is both
genius and
terrifying um so for someone to want to
pursue that career I'm always intrigued
by like why so can you give me the
context that you think from your
earliest
years might have influenced you taking
that path if we go before you're even
10 well I did stand up comedy when I was
eight you know for the first time where
like I
mean the the truth is I fell into stand
up by accident but when I was a kid I we
used to go to this my mom and daddy T
this video store and they'd go you can
choose something each and we'd all watch
it together or whatever and my mom used
to always used to pick like pink she
loved like inspector cluso and like
Peter cers and all that so she would
choose all that stuff and then I
discovered Eddie Murphy I remember like
getting out uh Beverly Hills Cop and I
watched Beverly Hills Cop and I was just
like this guy is like so incredible and
then I started watching everything thing
Golden Child Trading Places all of that
as a kid I was too young to be watching
that stuff and my mom and dad had no
idea about age rating so they were F of
it and then I discovered raw which was
like his second special that came out I
think
and I remember watching that and I
watched I'd had watched standup before
on TV like British standup I'd watched a
lot of it as a kid and loved it there
was something about watching a guy and
he just had a
microphone and he walks out in that
leather suit not that I'd ever worn a
leather suit orever will but like he
walks out like it's a rock gig you I
mean like the whole crowd like this
massive crowd they go nuts and they
watch a
show of somebody just talking I just
found it unbel like the low finess of it
the sort of thing of I'm going to say
things I think or my take on stuff and
that's the show there is no more than
this like you mean there's no effects it
is just literally I am going going to
just stream of conscious the illusion is
it stream of Consciousness I'm just
going to like talk and you're going to
and that's the show I just found it
incredible and so then we
went my family took me to ponting's
Holiday Camp me and my brother for like
a week and they had a talent competition
and all I used to do then was read joke
books like everything I read was like
3,001 jokes like joke books for kids
like I just all that was all I would
read all the time just joke because of
that Eddie Murphy I think so I mean I
was just really into comedy I just loved
it I love the idea of making people
laugh I Lov the idea of doing comedy I
was just so obsessed with it and so then
I entered the talent competition it's a
stand up it was horrendous but I won I
you know I won I beat this kid this kid
playing a kazoo and there was another
kid doing the dance thing smashed it
absolutely smashed it but like even then
I really loved St I like I love stand up
but the idea that I would do that for a
career as somebody from
like an Asian background or whatever you
know like my parents are very much like
you're going to you know we've come over
to this country for you
to to follow a path and be successful
the idea of denan up as a career was not
we just wasn't ever in there that
stereotype of um immigrant Asian parents
trying to make you a doctor or a lawyer
yeah was that did you witness that
firsthand from your parents as in did
they have that conversation with you at
any point or was it just kind of there
in the background as an expectation they
they didn't explicitly say you're going
to be I mean my dad was pretty laidback
to be honest with you my mom was a bit
more was a bit more kind of dead set on
what we were going to do but you know
there was there was my Mom and Dad my
mom and dad left Sri Lanka for my dad to
finish his studies you know it was an
economic reason but also there was
trouble going on in Sri Lanka you know
like my family originally tamamo there
was lots of trouble going on with the
single in the Indian government and
there's like a civil war going on and
that was affecting a lot of my family
members as well so there's like a lot of
push and pull involved in them coming
over here but they never sat me down and
had a talk but every single time I made
a decision or talked about what a levels
I was going to do or anything like that
I was conscious of the fact that they
were really worried about what I was
going to do that you know for example
not going to University was not an
option for me do you know what I mean
really I mean unless I really decided to
Rebel but they just assumed I was going
to educate myself to what ever level and
then go off and follow this path of
being a successful
whatever um so yeah that's kind of it
was kind of I felt it do you I mean but
they never had an explicit chat but I
did feel it when I was reading through
your story and going through the notes
on your autobiography it kind of I I I
really could relate to um your childhood
in many ways because it seemed like your
childhood had very distinct um opposing
chapters right one might say and from
came I came to the country when I was a
kid from Botswana and the first chapter
was great right but that's the chapter I
honestly can't remember yeah because I
was below the age of 10 my siblings can
remember it with great um great detail
but I can't remember that chapter I'm
told about it I'm told about the the
presence and the everything kind of
being normal and then the second chapter
which I can remember vividly because I
was slightly older is when kind of chaos
ensued yeah and everything seemed to
fall
apart what was that first chapter for
you like I to be honest it's very
similar to what you're talking about you
know I
remember I remember being very
comfortable and I remember my dad's you
know all the stereotypical kind of
things that you that you mark success
with my dad wore a suit to work do you
mean we had a nice car we never really
wanted for anything we lived in a nice
house the people that my f like my
family were like had a big Social Circle
they were you know all of those like
external signifiers that was all
happening so my kind of
recollection my to be honest with my
recollection was being spoiled to be
honest with like I had just loads of
stuff do you I mean like my mom and dad
my mom and dad bought us loads of stuff
but they we'd go out to eat a
lot you know my dad was doing well he's
doing really well do you know what I
mean and
so yeah similar to you I don't have
vivid memories of it but I do have a
general memory of like you know if I
asked for a thing for Christmas it was
pretty sure it's pretty likely I was
going to get it do you what I mean for
the first eight years or so M so it's
really super comfortable do you know
what I mean and then it literally was I
would say over the period
of 6 months everything got completely
turned upside down it was like it was
just a complete
180 what was the Catalyst for that
180 sort of unbeknownst to me my dad was
kind of was not doing great at work he
was starting trying to do other was sort
of messing around he was what do I mean
by messing around like he was just a bit
of a loose cannon do you I mean I think
it had got got to his head a little bit
he drank a lot he was a bit of a
womanizer um and that was starting to
get noticed at his work and then he
started having ideas of like going off
and doing other things he ended up
getting I think he got fired from his
job and then he started trying to do
these kind of import export deals which
at the time we thought oh that's my
dad's New Path but as it turns out we
was illegal but like he basically we we
ended up getting the first thing I had
was that I my mom said we're going to
have to move out of this house this
house is being repossessed right so my
mom and dad couldn't keep up their
mortgage payments and then we ended up
moving to this house on this Council
estate that my dad had got off a friend
or was renting off a friend we were
there for a little bit and then while we
were at that house my mom found out that
my dad had been sort of sleeping
regularly sleeping and started a
relationship with this other
woman and was intending on leaving us
and the like leaving us to go and start
a life with this other woman and so that
threw my mom's kind of world upside
down and then basically the the the the
sort of trigger for everything going
really kind of mad was we hadn't seen my
dad for a couple of days and my mom
said I'm going to it was a mad I I can't
remember how how old it was maybe like
11 or 12 or something my mom said I'm
going to take you to This Woman's house
and I need you to go to the door and ask
where your dad is because I've not seen
him for two days and I've not heard from
him so she took me around to this house
we went to the door and I said where's
my dad and she said your dad was
arrested two days ago and it turned out
that they'd been in the middle of doing
some sort of Deal or something and
they're oper they were the target of
some sort of police investigation in
left
the police stormed in or stormed in and
arrested them and my dad was being held
and he ended up going to prison for he
was sentenced to 2 years
so so then everything kind of
went it sort of went to chaos like my
dad was in prison we ended up being
housed in a bed and breakfast uh by the
council CU I didn't have enough housing
so my mom my brother and I were staying
in uh in a room in this bed and
breakfast in H
and um my mom like she'd not been
working but she got herself a job as a
cleaner and then we were going to school
from there do you know what I mean like
and yeah it was just like it just sort
of like everything completely flipped
man and so it was kind
of yeah it was just a complete 180 do I
mean at the start of that 180 your dad
was an accountant right yeah and then
he'd lost his job yeah cheated on your
mom yeah gone into sort of financial
disarray ended up in prison yeah in the
in the process of what six months or
something 12 well that the sort of the
house got repossessed uh we found out
about I think that sort of period from
start to finish maybe 12 to 18 months I
think and at that point you were in at
the start of that you were in private
school right yeah yeah so I'd got a
scholarship
so
um i' I'd done this I was I was at
school and then what I didn't realiz is
that my mom and dad were struggling to
pay my dad had lost his job and was
trying to make his way in other ways and
was struggling to pay for the fees and
so the first I realized about it was
like accountants from the school were
turning up to my lessons with like an
invoice going for you yeah to to pass on
to my parents because my my mom and dad
were in such a rear and then eventually
I got one day I came home from school
and dad said to me you can't you're not
going back tomorrow like we got to take
you I think it's like Midway through
through term he said you can't go back
back because he was just getting freaked
cuz he'd like he was in such a rear he
was worried about what would happen even
if I turned up that you know just not
that they were going to do anything to
me but I think it got to the point where
he just had to take me out he he
couldn't see a way of of paying any the
money anymore so then like two days
later I was like in rolled at the local
school did you say bye to anybody in
school no I mean I got there was a mate
of mine that I'm still in touch with
now um who I kind of let know what was
going on or whatever but um nobody else
no I just like one day I was there one
day I wasn't when I look back on my own
life I it's taken me maybe like 30 years
to realize like the underlying shame and
so when I was looking through your story
I was trying to understand if there was
that same feeling of kind of underlying
shame well like to give you an idea so I
I went to I started at this state school
and I really enjoyed it and I had I had
a slightly opposite experience to you in
terms of
like when I was uh when I was at the the
the private school I was one of the only
agan kids there and I got loads of like
I got a fair bit of racism and then when
I moved to state school there were more
kids of color at that school I still got
I mean I I got into my fair share of
scrapes with racist but like that sco
it's a weird thing I was really enjoying
my time at school and it was actually a
rest spite from being at home because
like when I went home it was just like
everything's gone to [__] my mom's
really sad like and obviously I I I
wanted to support her in that but School
felt normal I didn't tell anybody at
school what was going on at home right
so I'd go to school and they for all
they know like everything's like totally
chill but and to to get like so my dad
went to prison on the 26th of March my
birthday is on the 27th of March right
and I went to my mates my mates
organized like a little like get
together watching films and stuff I
didn't tell them any I didn't tell them
I didn't tell them because I was just
like I don't want anybody to know about
this so I turned up to the but like to
this birthday get together the day after
because I didn't want to pollute my
school experience with that do you know
what I mean so I can relate so I just
didn't tell anybody and like I had
really embarrassing experiences where
when we moved out the bed and breakfast
we were put in this flat and there's no
phone in the flat there was a pay phone
downstairs so but I didn't want my
friends to know that I it was a pay
phone so I had to like make them promise
me they were going to call me exactly
this time and then stand by the pay
phone said that nobody from any one of
the other flats was going to answer it
and do you know what I mean so stupid
but I was just so wanting to nobody to
know what was going on there's a cost to
that there isn't there do you know what
I mean like that that kind of living
with the the sense of embarrassment
almost yeah I I I guess like there's
there's lots of little things that there
is a stress at trying to live a double
life like that you know you know know
things that would normally be okay you
suddenly panic over so for example there
was a girl I liked and we were like we
we we were living on this C we' putting
in a house we' put in this house but we
couldn't afford carpet so it just we
just had wooden like just the wooden
floors in there and think it was fine
but just no carpets it looked it looked
strange and then we walking around the
estate and then this girl that I liked
said oh do you mind if I come in and use
a toilet I
mean I didn't had a panic attack I
thought you can't you thinking like what
do I do here I can't say no you can't
use a like I started thinking what can I
say my mom doesn't like girls using the
toilet in my house like what what can I
possibly say in the end I said I think I
said we're between
[Laughter]
carpets you know how it works you get
the carpets taken out you just wait for
a couple of weeks for the floors to
settle you get the new thinking that's
actually really quick thinking but yeah
all that kind of stuff is just it's just
so stress it's so stressful man we you
you would you described yourself as a
lazy kid yeah I really was yeah you're
not now you're not a lazy person now so
I still do think I'm quite lazy I
I I just was like all of my school
reports said romes is wasting his
ability romes doesn't apply himself
romes doesn't um and that was true
before everything not to the same degree
but it was sort of true
before everything kind of went Topsy
Turvy but it was definitely true
afterwards you know a lot of teachers
say to me you're not applying yourself
at
all but I sort of think for a while I
went through a phase of just having
given up to be honest with you because
it's sort of gone so to my mind my world
had been turned upside down so
completely I couldn't really see the
point in it I I just sort of I just
wanted to have a nice time I I wanted to
enjoy myself and that didn't that meant
not working didn't initially it did not
give me you know when you're talking
about when you wrote down your list of
targets it sort of had the opposite
effect him I just thought I don't give a
[__] anymore I've seen my dad work
really hard you know I didn't know the
full details of what he done you know
all of that sort of stuff came out in
the wash but like at the time I think
I've watched the man work really hard
and then he ended up in prison he split
up with my mom I mean they got back
together eventually like it was
terrible and I actually went through a
phase of thinking I know that I went
through a phase of thinking that we were
just cursed because like so many so many
things so many bad things happen in
quick succession I actually went through
a phase as a kid of thinking that
happiness is something that will always
elude me or like I will never be
comfortable you know this I'm never this
is just what we're supposed to but you
know like my parents are Hindu they talk
about you know talk about God a lot in
our house and so sudden you just go
maybe God just doesn't like us man you
know that I genuinely had that genuine
belief that like maybe this is just how
supposed to be so it kind of pushed me
the other way I stopped working I
started bunking off I just wasn't I just
wasn't in the zone at all what was your
um opinion of
yourself during that
time it's a great question because to be
honest with you what my opinion of
myself is now is something I really
struggle with and and like I've never
thought about the origins of that
but um
the the truth
is I think when I've come to reflect on
it after that and I remember thinking
this at the time I remember thinking I
don't know what I would have ended up
like if we'd have stayed comfortable you
know I don't know what person I would
have been if I'd have stayed comfortable
and I would I'm telling you now if that
hadn't have happened to us I wouldn't be
a comedian now I wouldn't be the person
I am like there's so many things that
defined who I am I was def so much of me
has been defined by that
period
and but what I would say is my opinion
my opinion to
myself was and continues to be something
I really struggle with in terms of it
being absolutely like like Rock Bottom
you know you know like you just I just
have
uh I have a prick living in my head that
talks to me all the time do you what I
mean and so and that is something that
to this day as I'm sitting with you now
I have to contend with you I mean I've
got like this inner
voice that is horrific do you it's like
a horrible horrible person that I've got
like you know this horrible voice in my
head that just like regardless of
whatever external um evidence there is
or whatever whatever else happens I will
always have this kind of this inner
belief uh
that I'm sort of a bit shitty do you
what I mean like or I'm
not I can't do this or I'm not good at
this or you're getting away with this or
whatever imposter syndrome I guess is a
is an oversimplified way of of
describing it but yeah it's something
I've I've sort of had to not had to deal
with something I've dealt with for as
long as I can remember really I got
really I got chills all over my body
then and I don't really know do you know
why it is is because it really breaks my
heart to hear that that right and it
genuinely does like cuz and it also I
think people don't understand the
privilege that they have if they don't
have that in their head right right
yeah yeah I totally agree I mean it's
it's such a difficult thing
because cuz if you don't have that you
don't understand why somebody would have
that you get what you're talking about
snap out of it you mean look at your
life and go a successful
comedian 100% you sort of go and it's
not that I'm unhappy with my lot it's
not that I want anything to it's nothing
external I don't need anything external
to change I just have that you just have
that you know I've just always mentally
had that and yeah like what you just
said I totally relate to because
sometimes I've not you don't tell people
because you just sort of go they're
going to go what what you want about
like what what are you talking about but
people that get it get it you what I
mean and it's like I I do
think you know something that I've kind
of got involved with as much as I
possibly can is to sort of encourage
those you know those kind of mental
health conversations and stuff I think
we become much more open about it than
we were in the past but when I was at
Uni I I went to see a therapist that
like they had like these free therapy
sessions for students and I went along
to one and I did like a whole course
whatever I remember telling my mom about
it and she like freaked out you because
said what what do you mean you're going
to do a therapist like what is there
something wrong with your head you know
like she like really like cuz to her
mind does that mean your mad like do you
know what I mean like she didn't have
that same it's like her understanding of
it now it's completely you know she's
completely you know she's her attitude
towards it is very different but yeah
it's just something you have to contend
with and and like at the moment as I'm
talking to you
now I've got coping mechanisms and I'm
sort of on top of it but I'm I'm always
sort of this clo you know if I get if I
it can be something really little like I
don't exercise for a bit or I don't
hydrate properly for a few days or I
don't I don't get enough sleep I'm back
you know I mean like I go dark I just go
dark in my head you know like you kind
of the voice comes you know the voice
comes back but you know what I mean you
s you start getting down on yourself and
you have to be on top of all of those
things like what does the voice
say it will say you're not a very good
dad you're not a very good husband if I
come to do this podcast it will go why
are you bothering to do this you got
nothing interesting to say do you what I
mean like you're going to try and get
away with with this at some point
somebody's going to tap you on the
shoulder and go we all know if you leave
quietly we won't sa if you know that
kind of thing you know I remember like
doing a run of like I was particularly
busy I had one of about six panel shows
like different Studio things over two
weeks and I was in a really bad place
and I turned up to each one of them with
the steadfast belief that I was [__] at
this right and I've got to try and get
away with it as much as I POS you know
like I was just in a bad place I turned
up and I'd be sitting there and like you
know to be a comedian you got to be
loose and chilled out and relaxed and
it's almost like being a you know I've
read a lot about it about being in a
flow State you know being in the pocket
whatever you want to call it you can't
be in the pocket if you got a voice in
your head going you're crap at this so
it's like yeah it just you just go
through periods of it I suppose the um
when you went to see that therapist in
school why did you
go so there was a very specific trigger
so what happened was is I had saved up
because I've always been really into
music and I'd saved up to get this like
HiFi yeah um like this really cool bit
of stereo equipment and I was too scared
to take it to UNI cuz I just thought
somebody going a necklace or it's going
to get smashed whatever so I left it at
home in my bedroom at home and my mom
and dad had a
lodger and he was sort of he was
somebody that had come over from Sri
Lanka that they were kind of helping out
and he'd been sleep I'd been sharing a
room when I came back I shared a room
with him and they'd moved that piece of
stereo equipment right because he needed
to put some stuff somewhere or whatever
my reaction to something quite nothing
was like it it was like I really like
was like felt
like my mom and dad were trying to move
me out or they didn't care about my
stuff like and then I like really got
pissed off about it and then later on
that evening realized that that was a
massive overreaction and then recognized
that I wasn't in a good head space you
know like I just felt like for me to
have reacted like that probably was a
sign cuz I felt like I was going through
some [__] as well you know like you know
you don't feel right in yourself and
then when I reacted like that I
thought I need to I need to sort of
speak to somebody probably you know I'm
not in a good I'm not in a good place
and so like I think like two days later
I looked into it and then started going
you know what's um really has I think
changed my life is the amount of times
I've had this exact conversation with
someone who is maybe a comedian maybe
not about the voice in their head yeah
and until I started doing this podcast I
had absolutely no idea I couldn't
comprehend the thought that there's
people that have a voice in the head
that is somewhat against them at times
right I couldn't comprehend it yeah and
so for me like this isn't the first time
I've heard this this is May maybe not
even the 10th time it's really eye
openening for me have you ever and this
is I mean this is almost an impossible
task because you're like trying to piece
things together in hindsight but have
you ever developed a perspective or an
opinion where that voice comes from or
why you have it and someone else might
not h no I
don't I don't know is you know
like why have I got it and other people
haven't I I don't know it's something
I've thought about particular when I'm
talking to people that don't have it or
don't understand why I've got it
um and I don't know I I I don't know if
it's
like I mean I'm being super super pseudo
psychologist here but I sort of think
that you know when I said to you about I
sort of felt like everything was against
us yeah and you sort of go through this
period of like during your formative
years of a lot of things going badly or
going negatively you then start to see
that as your default and then if
something goes right or something's
going well then that is against type or
that is against you know you're supposed
to have [__] happened to you you're like
you're bad stuff supposed to or you're
supposed to have bad experiences and so
then maybe that son and I'm just
freestyling here but maybe that kind of
gets hard wide into you so that even if
like you have positive
things you kind of you you kind of don't
accept them and I also think of like
sometimes I've reflected on times when I
was a kid like really young and done
things I would consider to be selfish or
I remember like this like have a vivid
memory of being horrible to my brother
and the voice goes to me that's you at
your core like when you're when you're
being nice that is conditioning but that
is what you know I've had that thought
where that you fundamentally is that
person that that nasty person but what
you've done is like social conditioning
has taught you that you know you allow
your brain to go down those those
thought Pathways you know I sat with
Gabel matate he's um he's maybe he's
like considered to be like the leading
um psychologist therapist on
specifically childhood trauma and his he
was handed off during the the Holocaust
when his because his mom was trying to
save him so she gave him to someone else
and he talks to me about how we
interpret we are narcissists as young
children we think everything is about us
if parents are screaming that's because
of me you know and and how children are
these like great like huge narcissists
so even though his mom was doing an act
of love he almost internalized it as an
act of Abandonment which meant that he
wasn't good enough so he he talks about
how he lived with this kind of sense of
not being good enough the other
conversation I reflect on which K comes
to mind as you're talking is Steve
Peters who wrote the chimp Paradox and
he talks about you read it great book he
talks about two periods he goes under
the age of like 10 you can develop
goblins and he refers to a goblin as
something that we can never really shake
because of the the the neural Pathways
in our brain a CH a pretty much change
for good and and we can often not
remember it because we don't even start
to form memories until we're like three
or whatever and those are your goblins
and then he goes after 10 it's really
your Gremlins which are things we can
overcome yeah so it's it's interesting
that we can have these sort of goblins
but also not remember where they came
from and they can also be just like
narcissistic childlike interpretation of
events yeah yeah I think I think I I I
do sort of agree with that and I think
like one of the things I discovered is
like in in conflict and things like that
you know there was this uh David Foster
Wallace did this like commencement
speech that I read and it's about like
this thing that we're all hardwired to
believe that we are the center of the
universe right so like when you're going
to work and somebody cuts you up or
somebody takes ages in front of you at
the supermarket it's so why is this
happening to me and then as soon as you
flip the switch and go this isn't
happening to me I'm like this person's
got their own thing and this person's
got their own thing as soon as you do
that your ability to just chill out is
miraculous right and and I I do think
that that is part of it like you know
the belief that bad things happen to me
what am I talking about do you mean what
are you talking about do you think
you're that important that that that
they've got time for Destiny to go nah
badic what are you talking about you
absolute God complex having [__] you
know that's the truth of it you know
what I mean it's just some stuff
happened man it's not Destiny you're not
on some route there's nobody's got
anything against you just like what are
you talking about who do you think you
are do you know what I mean so it is
that it is that you're kind of like
trying to combat that you said you
learned coping mechanisms yeah what are
those coping mechanisms um that sounds
like one of them what you just described
there which sounded like perspective
yeah one of the is perspective another
one is
just is completely it's completely
surrendering yourself to the moment that
you're in so like uh if you
complete what I found is is like a lot
of kind of your so this Inner Voice or
whatever or a lot of your worries and
stuff like that are things that are not
happening to you at that time you know
it's like I'm worried this is going to
happen I'm worried I'm [__] at this and
this is going to happen
and and one of the things I found is
like to just
completely be of this moment and this
moment alone and and sort of
yeah just just be present you know like
so if I come here I could come here
going um if this podcast doesn't go well
then people are going to get in touch
with on social media and then you know
uh BL you know you can start getting
yourself in a thing you're not good
enough to do this podcast he shouldn't
have interview you have you seen the
other guest he's got on this podcast is
not why has he done this BL or if you
just go I'm just going to come here and
enjoy this podcast and you know and I'm
just going to be here in the in the chat
with
you you're just you the way you
experience things completely changes you
what I mean you you
just you just become you just have a
different experience of the same thing
you can experience two things completely
differently like and the truth is all of
these things you're
catastrophizing are fine you know like
if I go if I'm if I'm crap on a panel
show I don't get booked for that panel
show again so what like who gives a [__]
do you know I mean like that's fine it's
totally cool and then the other thing is
to just kind of actively
be aware of when I'm getting like that
you know like sometimes you can't
necessarily stop it but I go I've gone
dark do you what I mean you sort of go
this is happening but this is it's okay
to feel like this I don't need to block
those thoughts but they are irrational
and I just I just know what's happening
do you what I mean I need to get my
nutrition in order I need to get down
the gym I need to get a good night's
sleep whatever I need to do to sort
myself out I need to do a bit of like
you know
head space or whatever it is do you know
what I mean to try and get myself back
on an even kill whereas before before I
had those kind of coping mechanisms who
knew when I was going to come out of it
you know I just would submit myself to
it completely and then it would be like
chance that I would come out of it you
know when you reflect on your your
journey with mental health was there has
there what period of your life was the
most
difficult in terms of mental health
yeah
um I would say my late my late teens
into my kind of early 20s was really
challenging
cuz I remember reacting I've got loads
of memories of reacting really badly
to to things
um like irrationally like over the top
reactions
like I remember like I didn't really do
very well in my a levels CU I was just
like pissing about and then when the A-
level results came I just thought this
is the end I can't carry with my life
you know I really like was like I can't
you know I was I was I was thinking
about taking my own life like regularly
you know like yeah there's loads of
times you know there's loads of times
during that
period when I thought about it I did
think about it a lot um and i' I'd
fantasized about it you know I'd like
think about how I was going to do it I
think about how easy it would be after
that I think about the repercussions
after I'm gone you know i' think i' I
could spend time thinking about it you
know
so um and that was kind of the toughest
time and then as I kind of got
older
um yeah it sort of got I still had the
same issues but I started to kind of be
able to to deal with him a bit more
effectively and you know like I managed
to shut off The Voice you know there be
there' be long times I don't have any
voice at all you know like it's just
gone and then occasionally sort of go
dark again but yeah that was probably
the most challenging time you know
there's a there's a stereotype about
Comedians and them H you know their
perspective of themselves not not being
happy or whatever there's that like a
long anding stereotype and I've sat here
with Jimmy Carr Etc and he's told me he
actually said to me he said you should
ask you should ask comedians not are
they depressed but like who in their
family was depressed right which I
thought was an interesting what's your
whole observation as it relates to you
on that like stereotype that comedians
are either depressed themselves or their
family was or their mom was or they had
someone in the home they were trying to
cheer up I don't I don't I don't know if
I think that all comedians are depressed
I've said after a long
description it feels like I've supplied
a lot of evidence to the country but I I
don't think all comedians are depressed
but I do think that I think that all
comedians are wired slightly differently
certainly all the really good ones do
you know what I mean or the ones that
like Something's Happened they've had
something happen to them that has
changed the wiring that has made them an
outsider in some way and and it it might
be depression but it might
be you know it might be a change in
circumstances it might be a bement it
might be
whatever it might be a class shift it
might be their parents you know there's
something about comedians that
just they're just slightly different you
know their wiring is slightly different
I do genuinely believe that because I
sort of whenever I talk to comedians who
I really like after a while of talking
to them you
go I've spotted
it there you go there it is do you I
mean they've all got that they've all
got a little bit of like you know I yeah
they've all got a little bit of faulty
wiring I think or I don't mean faulty I
mean why differently different yeah yeah
yeah what is that in your words for you
what is that different
wiring that's made you like a like
pulled magnetized by the career of being
a standup comic or
comedian a writer I don't know I think
that like sort of I I think the speed in
which
the speed in which everything changed
the you know the the sort of my life
experiences as well as the fact that I
was sort of drawn to Comedy
anyway you know all of my family like my
dad was my family sort of all pretty
comedically you know they they're all my
my my the love language at my house is
taking the piss out of each other do you
I mean like you know my mom and dad and
my brother and I just rinse each other
all the time that was that was what I
knew that's what my kids are like that's
what we're like in my house you know and
I think that's kind of contributes to it
but I think
that you know again I'm being sort of
I'm speaking from a position of deep
ignorance but like I
think having seen the normal trajectory
for my dad and the directory that they
wanted for me go so spectacularly wrong
has allowed me to accept taking a
different path you what I mean like I I
I think had that not happened I probably
would have gone I need to get like a
regular job like and follow this
trajectory that my parents want and I
need to follow the the the the
Milestones of success that everybody
kind of attributes M whereas this thing
allowed me to go well do you know what
I'm just going to do the thing I really
want to do and let's see what happens do
you know what I mean and initially that
was you know before I was do in comedy
that was teaching I didn't do teaching
because I wanted to make you don't do
teaching because you want to make money
but I I wasn't doing teaching because I
wanted like respect from the community I
did it because I loved the idea of
teaching children and then I ended up
moving into comedy and I just sort of
thought I actually kind of I kind of uh
have attached
less weight to financial remuneration to
like having the nice house to all of
that and I just want to do this I I I I
just want to be driven by wanting to do
this thing do you know what I mean
because if you chase the financial thing
it can still go horrifically wrong so
why am I doing that do you I mean I
might as well chase that could still go
wrong but at least I'm doing something I
enjoy
and that first you know I was reading
about your early sort of gigs in like
pubs and stuff like that like eight
people or whatever that F that first
time a gig went well maybe it was it was
it butland your first when that was my
first when I was at eight yeah yeah how
did you feel up on stage and the minute
you walked off stage when it went really
well well I can tell you a really
specific gig man that like it was quite
a bit into so I was you know you were
doing all these Pub gigs and I started
to get to a point where I was starting
to do well at these gigs right and I
felt like okay I'm starting to get all
right at this you know for that level do
you know what I mean you certainly could
have put me on at the Apollo at that
stage but like I was like I was to feel
like I was starting to do well in these
gigs and what I hadn't done what I'd
never done is I'd never turned the room
so what I mean is Whenever However the
gig was going I would go on and follow
suit right so if it was a good gig I'd
probably have a good Gig if it was a
tough gig I'd still do all right but I'd
have a tough gig the first time I
absolutely buzzed my tits off is it was
a tough gig I was on
second and like the hosted struggled the
first actor struggled and then they got
me on and I started and they were quiet
but by the end of the gig it was like I
was like having a great one and that to
turn a like that was the first time I'd
ever taken a room from being quiet to
being a great gig and I lost my mind I
mean like I was just like the adrenaline
was just insane man I came off just like
and you have to hide that right because
you know you don't want to walk off just
go yeah man yes absolute smash time so I
had to like swallow that down and just
go I've got to leave quickly so I can
scream in the car but I felt I felt in
mate that I remember like as the gig was
turning I didn't want to dip out the
because as soon as you go this is going
well you're out the moment right so I
had to like I had to just like just keep
doing the gig keep doing the gig like
had a great response and I was like oh
my God that felt amazing it was
unbelievable man
amazing and has that kind of been your
relationship with stage where that's the
real like that's
the that's the Pinnacle in terms of like
feelings and emotions and like I guess
like
self I don't know
affirment um I don't know I mean I I
definitely enjoy the buzz of doing life
stand up more than anything else I do
and like nothing else really matches up
to I really do enjoy all the other stuff
I do but nothing can really compete with
stand I think it's partly because of the
possibility that you could really die on
your ass like that is exciting that it
could go horrifically wrong but but this
is something I was going to ask is as
someone who said that there's that voice
in your head and things can trigger it
what happens when it does go
horrifically wrong on stage it just
depends cuz
like the truth is your mindset changes
right cuz like when I started doing
standup if I did badly
it's probably because I was [__] right
whereas like now I I I feel like I'm all
right at standup and now the gigs that
go badly you need those gigs you know
like it's like going to the gym you know
if I'm trying to write a new tour I've
got to write new material so I go on
with 10 minutes of new material and I
try it out if I if it goes for nothing
I'm disappointed because none of the
stuff's work but it doesn't it doesn't
make me think I'm a [__] comedian I I'm
disappointed these people are going to
leave thinking romish was crap tonight I
can't do anything about that but you're
sort of going this is part of the
process you know you're like I'm going
to the gym I've got to like you learn
more from those gigs do you know what I
mean and so it's still don't get me
wrong it's still horri it's horrible
saying something and then looking
out then silence that never gets that
never gets easier man but you s go this
is what you got to do it's like when you
you got to take risks in the small rooms
so that when you do the big rooms it's
better you know like you know you want
to do stuff that's on the not
necessarily on the edge but you want to
do stuff where you might do an act out
that you wouldn't normally do or you
might talk about something you've never
talked about before and the risk is you
might tuck into a big plate of [__] but
when you're in the big room when you're
doing your tour you go I wish I'd taken
more risks back then do you know what I
mean so you can't it's kind of a
different it's kind of a different
process having said that I've done a
corporate gig where I've died on my ass
and I felt absolutely horrific you know
like you it's oh God it's just so awful
man there's something really surprising
about someone who attests to having that
like tricky internal monologue with
themselves that would then puts in such
a highrisk situation I know you'd expect
you'd think someone would just stay at
home and just avoid any chance of
reinforcing that negative voice but
waking that prick up yeah yeah it's it's
amazing though the honest truth is I
would have that voice regardless of what
I did so I might as well do something I
really loved do you know what I mean and
I just absolutely like I'm addicted to
doing standup I'm addicted to it even if
I don't have a tour to prepare for I'll
go and do a gig you know I can't not gig
and it makes me better at everything so
if I'm doing a travel show I'm funnier
on the travel show if I'm regularly
gigging if I'm not gigging I'll be worse
on that panel on that travel show be
worse on a panel show be worse talking
to you now like you know you're just
you're just exercising that muscle like
being on stage I just feel I'm addicted
to it quick word from one of our
sponsors I've got a tip for all of you
that will make your virtual meeting
experiences I think 10 times better as
some of you may know by now Blue Jeans
by Verizon offers seamless high quality
video conferencing but the reason why I
use blue jeans versus other video
conferencing tools is because of
immersion their tools make you feel more
connected to the employees or customers
you're trying to engage with and now
they're launching one of their biggest
feature enhancements to impact a virtual
events so far called Blue Jean Studio
actually used it the other day I did a
virtual event using the studio which I
think about 700 of you came to T TV
level production quality all done by one
person with very little technical
experience on a laptop so if you've got
an event coming up and you're thinking
about doing it virtually check out blue
jean studio now let me know what you
think because I genuinely believe I know
this is an advert and I'm supposed to
say this but I genuinely believe it's
the best tool I've seen for doing really
immersive simple but high quality
production virtual events it is that
time of year again when my life becomes
incredibly reliant on hu I'm busier than
ever I'm trying to be nutritionally
complete in all the that I do I'm trying
to make sure I get all of the vitamins
and minerals that I need in my diet and
heuel has been for the last three and a
half years the primary reason as it
relates to my diet that I've been able
to be nutritionally complete while also
being incredibly productive I always
find that when I'm most busy when I'm
most sort of sucked into my work my diet
Falls by the wayside that's the trend
that I've seen in all of my life
especially when I'm stressed that's when
I I end up resorting to foods that
aren't nutritionally complete or healthy
for me having hu on hand has been a game
changer not just for me I see it in my
team we have two hu fridges in this
building that we record the podcast in
um and it's become a a crutch I guess a
health crutch a positive Health crutch
for all of our team thank you hu for
creating a product that has helped me
and helped my health stay intact in my
busiest days over the last couple of
years back to the episode so you went
and became a teacher yeah for a while um
and at some point you you make the
decision
to reach out and swing onto that next
Branch I'm I'm trying to understand that
that sort of pivotal moment and like
what happened what made you take the the
leap crazy I mean I know comedians when
they start out don't get paid a huge
amount of money no you run at a loss for
a long time and you were you had a kid
on the way in the process of you taking
that leap yeah logically it was
foolish there's no getting around that
but um well what happened was I started
teaching and I was really loving it and
then I
um I just wanted to do stand up as a
hobby like loads of teachers have got
Hobbies right you know how many teachers
are in bands right so I just thought
this is going to be my thing I'm going
to do standup so I just started doing
gigs and then it started to go really
well and then somebody said to
me you know you could do you could
definitely do this for a job what did
you think when they said
that I just didn't it hadn't occurred to
me well that's a lie it had occurred to
me but I didn't think you don't there's
so many people trying to do stand up man
like so many people it's so like
what are the chances that you're going
to be able to make a living out of it
it's like so slim and also I just hadn't
seen it as a career thing but yeah
somebody comes goes it was like it was
actually a competition I was did a
competition called say think you're
funny in
Edinburgh and I was in the I got to the
semi-final and it's like one person gets
through to the final and I made it
through to the final and then one of the
judges came up and said oh the reason
that um we put you through is because as
soon as you walked home go this guy's
going to be a comedi like you just look
like you're going to be a comedian you
can definitely do this for a living so
there's just something about about you
would just go this guy's going to be a
comic and so that's when I was like oh
okay and then my gigging then had a bit
more purpose and because before I was
just like I'm just going to try and get
good at this you know that but then now
I was thinking oh maybe I could do this
for a job and then um my agent so so
then I got an agent and the agent said
to me if you really want to give this a
go you're going to have to leave
teaching and so I talked to my wife
about it and we were like okay so I just
decided to leave at Christmas so you
give it like a half term's notice or
whatever and
um didn't you get caught by oh
mate this is so bad man but like
basically I was head of six form well
actually it was Junior head of six form
and um I don't know why I had to make
that that clarification literally nobody
cares sorry was R I'm pretty sure R's
Junior had a sit in that period of his
life anyway why did I make that
correction anyway um so I so basically I
got asked to do this like this show at
the edin ref Fringe like every night it
was just like compilation mix Bill show
whatever and it's like a big
opportunity and um but I was supposed to
be back for a level a level results so I
just got in touch with him and I said
um my my wife's poorly and so I can't I
feel embarrassed I can't make it back
and they went okay and so I said I'll be
back as soon as I can and then I just
was like okay that's fine I've got away
with that and then I came back to school
the first day of September and nobody in
the office was talking to me like it was
like a proper Frosty atmosphere and I
thought oh God what's happened here and
then I opened my computer and it said
could you come to HR so I went to
HR and they uh they said to me the lady
said to me she's lovely um said to me so
you couldn't come back because uh your
wife was poorly and I I said yeah as
soon as that she said that I thought
this is over right and then she goes
right and then she just opened this
drawer and just pulled out this folder
and it had like reviews me appearing on
lineups like it was a comprehensive
dossier of what had been up to at The
edin Fringe
Festival and it was just so tricky cuz I
just thought that would be great to
have but but but as soon as she said
that um she was like what do you want to
do she goes you can't work with that
team anymore because I don't want to
work with you anymore because they're
like they feel so like they're so pissed
off with you for what you've done she
said we can move you to another head of
year team and I sort of knew that I was
going to leave to do comedy at that
stage I thought it's not fair to go and
join another head of your team only to
leave so I just said I'll become a math
St like you know I'll take a step down
and and be a mass teacher and not have
any of that responsibility and so I just
did that for the remainder but when I
left the thing that kind of
uh turned things upside down again was
like three days before I was due to
leave teaching my dad passed away
suddenly of a heart attack and so
[Music]
um yeah it and so then basically what
happened was is that the period after my
dad passing
away we had to sort out my mom's fin it
turned out my dad's finances were a
house of card he got this Pub that he'd
been sort of borrowing money from the
house to finance and all this it was
like a nightmare so it just meant that
it was like the start of my comedy
career was pretty tough like we were
just like throwing our time into trying
to figure that
out how did you deal with that how did
you process the the loss of your
father it was really difficult
because
um I was really close to my dad I mean
my relationship as you can imagine was
very troubled with my dad because you
know I'd seen this guy
I'd seen this guy kind of want to leave
us and you know he'd been sleeping
around a lot with a lot of different
women and um I'd seen M you know when we
were in the bed and breakfast I'd seen
my mom cry herself to sleep every night
and like it was really hard you know
that's all because of my dad so that was
really difficult and I remember like I'd
had loads of arguments with him he tried
to be a parent again I resisted because
I felt like you didn't want to be a
parent hacker you come back in and start
so you know that's very difficult but
then as we got you know later on in his
life we got really close again and you
know I'm I'm absolutely just delighted
that when my dad passed away I was had a
really good relationship with him but it
was hard you know like my dad was the
person that I was most like in my family
my mom and my brother are very similar
and I was very and I'm very similar to
how my dad was so I found it really
really difficult I found it really
really hard and
um the thing that I feel really sad
about for him is that sort of when he
passed away he hadn't really got himself
into a comfortable position you know
like everything had gone wrong and he
was trying to work his way back up but
you know my recollection of my dad right
up to the day he died was like
absolutely working his ass off and kind
of chasing his tail you know so that was
that is a bit of sadness in that you
know I kind of think I wish he'd had it
a bit easier in his life you know
sometimes I think you know I'll be
honest with you if my dad was still
around I would be broke cuz he would
have burned through all of my money that
i' made from Comedy like my dad was like
such he's so irresponsible with
so um but yeah there's a bit of sadness
there if you could have gone back to
remes when your father was alive in his
last say five years would you have acted
differently in any way I'm always so
curious about this because I'm in a
position where I'm fortunate enough that
my parents are still around and I I
spend time often forecasting the things
I'm going to regret so is there anything
where you think I wish I'd said this or
I should have you know yeah I
mean so I I well no is the honest answer
I think that you can be in a position
where you don't feel that I mean look
you're always going to feel like I
should have said I love you more or
whatever but I remember when I was
18 i' I'd come back from uni and I'd
been out like with some mates getting
drunk and I hadn't told my mom when I
was going to come back and I came back
later than I said I was going to and I
walked in pretty inconsiderate and drunk
and my mom and dad are sat in front of
the TV and my dad said said to me how
can you come back at this time and I
said to him how can you even talk to me
about what I should be doing in this
house and then I just launched
into a monologue about how he had no
right to tell me anything that I did in
my life how he wanted to walk away how
can you come back in here and tell me
that I should be doing whatever after
what you've done to Mom after what
you've done to me me and my brother like
what are you doing like what you know
and I just went into this rant and he
sat there mate as I'm telling you now he
took it from me and like you know you
think
about you know Asian culture you don't
talk you know my dad was very laidback
but you don't talk to your parents like
that do you know what I mean but he sat
there like he took it he took every word
from
me
and I stormed out of the
house and my mom watched me have this
conversation and ordinarily like my mom
would
have uh picked me up on it but she
didn't and I never spoke to my dad about
that conversation again so like I went
out for a bit I came back in the next
day we never spoke about it my never my
dad never asked for an apology I never
apologized to my dad we never spoke
about it again and if my relationship
with my father hadn't have improved
after this point it would have I I don't
know how I would feel about that
conversation I it would be something
that and even now as I'm saying it to
you I made up with my dad but it kills
me that I said that to him I don't
disagree with anything I said but it
does kill me that I said that to him but
when it was his 60th
birthday my dad's got load of brothers
and a sister a load of them came over
from Canada and Australia and to see him
and I wrote in his
card thank you for being a great dad and
somebody I look up to and my dad opened
the card and he said to me he like read
the card and he went really quiet it was
like in the middle of quite a rockus
family get together and he opened the C
really quiet and he just said to me do
you honestly mean that like he just
didn't believe that that was my view of
him and like he couldn't like and then I
realized up to that point my dad had
just thought we'd not he just thought we
weren't cool because of what had
happened in the past and he goes you he
said to me do you honestly mean that I
said yeah of course I
do and then I felt you know I felt
like I feel like now my dad knew what
thought about him do you know what I
mean and the the what I think of my dad
is that he was a deeply deeply deeply
flawed human being that had a great a
lot of great things about him and and
you
know
um so yeah when he when he passed away I
felt really I felt really close to him
but you know there's loads of things
like there's things where like if I'm
being honest with you when we started to
go where things started to go wrong I
was quite materialistic you know can I
have this can I have that why can't I
have that anymore what what are you
doing you prick oh yeah do you know what
I mean like why are you valuing that
stuff I remember like I've got a really
vivid memory
of wanting the new Public Enemy album
right it was like $8.99 on cassette or
something and my dad said yeah I'll get
it for you and then on the day he just
didn't have a tener he just he didn't
have a tener he didn't have any money
and I like flipped out do you know what
I mean I flipped out you promised me you
get but but that time you look at the
context of it you'd be forgiving if you
if you've been forgiving to romes
everything's going tits up this album is
like some sort of security wants to
listen to that some sort of normality do
you what I mean and it's a promise as
well exactly exactly and then he
couldn't in the circumstances what I
should have done was going okay cool I'd
love to get it that's what a good kid
does I'd love could you get it for me
when we can or I'll find another way to
get it but as a kid you sometimes
interpret that as Like You Don't Love Me
Maybe you know what I mean yeah 100% And
it's something that I'm really conscious
of with my kids now
because you sort of go I don't want them
to get the message that I don't love
them so but then you run the risk of
like buying them everything do you know
what I mean it's like it's such a
difficult thing I love you have it I
love you have it PlayStation yes I love
you like hoodie yes I love you trainers
yes I love you and then you go hold on a
minute this ain't good these kids need
to hear no so yeah it's a tricky one man
what about your mom she seems to have um
been this real Warrior throughout all of
this turmoil and and I was reading some
quotes I know she did an interview where
um she just said that her the center of
her Universe was you to as brothers and
she would have done anything to you
including becoming a cleaner and taking
other jobs in shops and stuff like that
she seems to be a kind of a real hero
throughout your
story yeah I
mean she's like she's amazing you know
you think
about
um you know she she came over from Sri
Lanka
my she was you know 1920 when she came
over she grew up in a tiny
village she come gets thrown into this
new country she tries to make her way
make new friends her husband is immersed
in the world in the country much more
than she is because she's a stay-at-home
you know wife and
mother and she's like you know making
her way and then her life gets thrown
upside down and she goes to a position
where she has to single-hand raised her
two sons because her husband's kind of
dipped
out and and and on top of that she's got
to deal with a heartbreak of what a
husband has
done as well as go what I've got to like
I've got to brush my shoulders off and
like and start and and support these
kids it's like amazing it's amazing you
know it's amazing and so like you know
she she's like a hero of mine for for
for how she's been for all of that time
and how she continues to be now I mean
don't get me wrong she loves spending
money and she loves being recognized and
she loves a celebrity like being a
celebrity she loves being on TV all of
that but I love I'm delighted I'm
delighted that my Mom's period of life
now after what she went through is being
on TV being comfortable having her house
paid off drives a nice like great Wicked
like do you I mean
like this is amazing do you know what I
mean this is amazing I mean don't get me
wrong
I do sometimes have a go and go you
don't need that Mom do you I mean like
you like chill out and like you know she
does things that annoy me like for
example she crashed her car she wasn't
happy with the courtesy car that we're
offering so she then said to me uh Romy
you need to give uh a guy that works at
the insurance company two tickets to
your toe because he upgraded my car so
she does stuff like that and like so but
but mate she's like what I mean she's
incredible you know I can't
you know you can't I can't say no to her
I mean like she doesn't well there's you
know it's debatable whether she takes a
piss on but like my mom's amazing she's
amazing and
like yeah I I I I owe a lot to her you
know so she is she is a hero of mine
definitely does she know that does she
have you ever said to her what what you
think and feel about that period and how
she behaved I have said that to her what
I would say is that sits in direct
contradiction to how many times I phone
her do you know what I mean like like I
I tell her I love her but I don't get in
touch enough for as much as she'd like I
don't see her as much as she'd like so
um yeah I probably should sort that out
I mean that I should probably sort that
out but um but she knows she knows what
I think of it yeah definitely I've got
no doubts in my mind that she knows what
I think of her when did you make it and
what was the The Catalyst moment you
know make making it is kind of like a
there's so much assumption in it that
there was a moment where everything
changes that's why it's a bit of a
shitty question if I reflect on that but
like when was what was the the first
stone that fell or the first Domino that
fell that created the cascading events I
hear about this figure in your life
called Shawn Walsh yeah and the impact
he had in believing in you and being
very patient with you yeah I love that
because we can all think of that that I
can think in my life of that person that
M like bizarrely had faith in me a
little bit more than I did in myself
yeah yeah well
it's an interesting one with Shan
cuz basically what happened was he saw
me at a gig in Brighton
and like he liked liked the set or
whatever and then he was going on
tour and I was
like so at that stage if you're tour
support basically he asked me to support
him on tour if you're tour support you
drive you drive the ACT you drive the
main act so I'd go and pick him up and
and at that stage I was so broke that um
you know sometimes I feel I don't know
you get paid after the gig like you know
after you've done a run a gig sometimes
I like I don't know if I don't know if
I've got enough money for petrol to like
go and get him like it was like proper
like I was like really running it on
fumes
financially and um so I was picking up
taking to
gigs and like that money from those gigs
was basically keeping our bills paid you
know if I didn't have those gigs I don't
know what we would have done and then
during that
time
um I one of the things that he offered
to do that I never took him up on was I
couldn't pay the road tax on my car and
I had some money due to come in from a
gig and I said to Lisa when this money
comes in I'll pay the road tax your wife
my wife sorry yeah I said I said to her
when when when this money comes in I'll
pay for the road tax anyway we came home
from the shops and the car was gone and
they' impounded it for not having road
tax and I phoned up and I said
um how do I get my car back and they
said well it's £450 fine and it's £150
for every day that we have the car for
so I said enjoy the car and then put the
phone
down and I said to Lisa I'm really sorry
we don't have a car anymore I don't know
what to tell you I can't afford like
there's no way every day I spend trying
to get that 450 quid we got to pay
another 150 this is like mad and then I
told sea about it and he straight away
goes I'll give you the money to get a
car he goes I'll just lend it to you
goes I know you're good for it he goes I
know you'll start making money from
Comedy and you'll be able to pay me back
and I never took him up on it but saying
that was huge like it was so
huge um anyway when we were on tour he
started doing the show called stand up
for the week and that was like they did
topical material and you had writers
working on it and he said to me can you
write me some like write some stuff for
the show like and actually what he
started doing was he started going what
do you think about this story and I'll
tell him like he goes you know what
comedy angles have you got on this story
and I talk to him and he'd like go okay
okay and little did I know he was trying
to help me out right so he was trying to
test the waters so what your angles on
this then he goes me can you send me
some stuff like send me some stuff
you've written and I remember sending
some stuff and he goes this is all [__]
I can't this is unusable and he goes try
again next week I'll send you the
stories have a go and then I did it
again and he goes some of this is good
most of [__] and then I did that for
another couple times he goes right do
you want to come into the writer's room
he goes I get into the writer's room and
and you can sit in and like do some
stuff so I sat in and then I became a
writer on stand up for the week I
started becoming a writer on stand up
for the week and then he did a
show called sha
mworld and he got me in as a writer on
that and then they did a press launch
for the show and they were doing a
comedy gig as part of the press launch
and sha got me on that comedy gig
and I did the gig and the guys that
produced live at the Apollo were there
for that gig cuz it was like the same
sort of production house that do the
show they I had a great set and two days
later they F me and asked me to be on
live at the
Apollo and like at that
time the money that you get for doing
live with the Apollo basically would pay
my bills for six months right and so I
didn't have an agent at the time so they
had to F me directly we were dropping
the kids off at Nursery
and I got got the phone call it's like
romes this is the guys from live at the
Apollo just wondering if you wanted to
be on the next series and I just went
hold on a sec I went do live the Apollo
man and I went yeah yeah yeah I think I
can do that and straight away I go I can
do comedy for another few months you
know what I mean I can I I I I can pay
bills for the next few months I don't
know it might come to the end of that
few months and I'm still not not not got
anywhere but I've just bought I've just
I I've got six months in this game still
it was like it was incredible and that
is down like you know sha got me that
man do you know what I mean like he he
was like giving me work that was P you
know I'll never forget that then you did
live at the Apollo yes how did that
feel it was unbelievable man it's like
it was such an iconic
show
um I heard your your dad always used to
say to you when you were younger about
you doing live at the Apollo so so when
I started gigging
I was trying to get stage time and it's
quite difficult like you know it's quite
difficult to get gigs like there was a
good Open Mic circuit it was quite
difficult to get gigs my dad was running
a pub at the time and he said to me just
run a gig here and like you can host the
gig and like you can book people book
your mates or whatever he goes we do it
like and I go okay so I started running
a gig there and like when I did my first
gig there it'll go to me I don't
understand why you're not alive with the
Apollo I said Dad I've got like four
minutes of gear like and it's not great
it's not as I said if if you if it's
that easy to get alive with the Apollo
everyone would be doing it do what I
mean but he used he was he kind of
veered between being quite harsh and
being like he he always thought I was
going to make it like he was he had no
doubts he was like you are going to make
it as a comedian but then he would come
and see me at gigs and he'd go the first
goal is a lot better than you tonight
like he go you need to think about that
cuz like you like he goes you did fine
don't get me wrong but that first guy
was great like that's who everyone's
going to remember after this gig and he
go to think about so he was like he
would give me like honest and heartfelt
criticism but within the remit of within
the context of the fact that you are
going to make it but I'm just telling
you tonight you weren't good enough do
you know what I mean so was it bit of
sweet when you did live at the Apollo
for that reason that he he wasn't there
at that time because a little bit I mean
the whole thing man is like my dad never
saw me
really I mean I started doing the cir I
mean like he didn't my dad died before I
became a full-time comedian you know
so he's not seen any of it he saw like
me doing these shitty gig and he used to
come to all those gigs and he started to
see me do some circuit gigs which were
like you know they were like you felt
like you'd made it you know you're
playing a 400 seater room on a Saturday
night it feels great you like you feel
like I'm in show business or whatever
but he never really saw any of that he
never saw me do any TV oh no he did see
me do one terrible bit of TV I did
soccer
am um that was like my one thing that he
saw me do and it went terribly so he's
only ever SE he's ever seen me have a
terrible time on TV so yeah it is a bit
bit sweet to be honest you'll run from
that point of live at the Apollo to
where you are now incredible as a
comedian I mean there's very few people
that get to sit at that top table as you
said as you identified when you're were
a teacher but to be one of those sort of
standout comedians that everybody knows
is really really incredible now when I
reflect on do you take that do you take
your body language was quite telling you
were uncomfortable and awkward yeah um I
I just feel like um
I feel really lucky I just feel like so
much of that is outside of your control
do you know I mean
like that's why I feel like I feel a bit
like um I don't want to AC there's part
of me that doesn't want to accept that
do you know what I mean like except that
comment that you make you sort of
go there's so much luck to this you know
I I think comedy is a meritocracy up to
a point but then you just get lucky and
you know so I I do feel really lucky but
and don't get me WR I'm very grateful
but do you work hard now in your in your
estimation well I work a lot I mean
there's no doubt about that whether I
work hard or not is another question I
mean I just
like everything I do is like fun I know
that's such a wanky thing to say but
like I love doing standup I love doing
panel shows I love doing travel show
like so doesn't ever feel like I'm
working hard the only struggle I would
say is that I'm a way a lot do you know
what I mean and like I I'm kind of
saying to my family I see in a week like
you know that bit I've had to sort I've
actually had to take I've had to sort of
take action on really CU sometimes when
you're doing a lot of travel shows it's
not really fair you know to be away as
much as I have been in the past but I
don't feel like I work hard like I
really love what I do like I love what I
do so much and I know that's like a
really privileged position to be in and
sometimes I'm going to be honest with if
I'm working on a script at 3: in the
morning because I've got like I got to
make a deadline I do think oh God this
is [__] I am working hard now you
what I mean but it's still fun I'm still
writing a script about some guy I'm
still writing a script being trying to
be funny you know that's what all of my
day is when you've come from where you
come from and you believe that you're
lucky is there not this kind of
overarching or this driving force that's
like [__] you could lose this at any
minute 100% I mean you think about it
like my my dad was going all right and
then it all went wrong and then I was a
teacher I took a gamble on Comedy and
then we were broke so I've had two
examples of like
of it going like you know everything
going so definitely there is part of me
I don't consciously think that there is
definitely part of me you know when you
think about how much how much you're
willing to hustle I think part of that
comes
from feeling insecure yeah a little bit
I do think so I do think so but now what
I would say to you sitting here now if
it all went if I stopped being on TV now
or like the phone stop ringing or
whatever I'll be cool it's fine do you I
mean I just I just
don't I'm just not worried about that
anymore you know like you I will always
do stand up and if TV stops and all that
stop all that kind of stuff
stops I feel kind of comfortable I'm I'm
all right you know it's it'll be fine
you'll see me down the park and you go
that guy looks like that guy that used
to host League of
R are you are you I hate I hate this
this word but I'm going to ask the
question anyway are you happy
I know that I've talked a lot about my
inner voice and all of that and how I've
struggled with
that but I am happy yeah I I I do I do
consider myself to be happy I I I think
like I've got a
great I've got a great situation you
know I've got a beautiful family I'm
happy
with being able to um to do nice things
I'm sort of my my mom's in a good
position my brother's in a good
position I love my job you know all of
those things I do I do feel happy do I
have dark moments where I descend into
into like troubl times yeah 100% but
that's not H happiness isn't buzzing off
your tits the whole time you know what I
mean what is it I think it's like going
I'm in a state of I I mean generally
speaking it's like you know it's like
the stock exchange you know you're going
to have ups and downs but genuinely
speaking you're on a decent you're in a
decent trajectory and I feel like I am
you know if one of your um one of your
boys Alex Charlie Theo comes to you and
says Dad right I'm going out into the
world based on your your lived
experience what is what
wisdom would do I need to know Dad to to
make it in life to be happy and to get
to where I want to go what are the
things that spring to mind that you
would impart on those
boys well you know you asked me about me
being lazy and and I still believe I am
lazy and the way that I have managed to
Life Hack That is to do things that I
really do enjoy
so I think for
them choose something that you really
feel passionate about that you really
love and don't for me personally don't
think about this external this goal down
the line that you're trying to get to do
this thing brilliantly do you know what
I mean do like every single thing you
come to do do that to the best of your
ability so when I do a gig
it doesn't help me to think about what
this gig could lead to I just need to be
great at this G I just need to do the
best I possibly can at this gig I'm not
in control of anything that happens
after that so every single step of the
way you try and do that the best that
you possibly can if you do that if you
love what you do and you do that I think
you you're on a good path they have a
relationship don't they those two points
in the sense that when you love it you
can become a master because you do it
for fun yeah hard like things that feel
like [__] stuff like you don't enjoy
it's hard to master yeah but also the
other thing is even if you do enjoy
something like if I do a panel
show and I and I'm thinking about what
the potential career path of that if I
do well on this panel show then somebody
willum me on this and then I'll get
booked for that and then if I start
getting booked for that maybe somebody
offering my own show if you sit in a
studio with that in your head God help
you do you I mean all you've got to do
it I'm not in control of that I I don't
that's so outside of I can't do anything
about that what I can do something about
is being as good as I possibly can in
this immediate circumstance that's all I
can do and then everything else takes
care of itself do you know what I mean
and it might happen it might not but why
am I thinking about that all that'll do
is tighten me up when I'm here I need to
be like I need to be in the moment I
need to just be loose and having a good
time and then not worry about that it
reminds me so much of what sir David
bford said to me about the British
cycling team he said one of the first
things he did when he came into that
failing cycling team was get them to
stop thinking about the podium right
right right because of all the emotional
impact that has when you're racing when
you're thinking about the medals and and
even when you're you're in training
thinking about the podium is is not
conducive with being productive and
focused his whole thing was like can we
find a way to be 1% better today yeah
yeah that's controllable when people
when find when they find that gain they
have that sense of momentum and it's
exactly what you've described there like
focus on the controllables and not the
fear that's induced by the anxiety of
like oh what happens if next you 100%
man which which kind of which goes
against the self-development community
who are all like fiveyear Planet you
know like yeah I know I know I I did I
did think to myself do I need to do that
but I have no plan I like you know I I I
don't know I just think like it's like
you know when people go and lots of
people I know that are really successful
do this where they go I want to get a
bafter by whenever
right to my mind I just think there
there's so many variables outside of
your control to get in a bath like why
would you give yourself a Target that's
so outside of your like so many things
could happen that nothing to do with
your ability or anything to get you a b
it's like there's a jewelry somebody on
that jewelry might not like you know
there's so many uncontrol why would you
do that to yourself do know what I mean
it's like what I can go is I want this
show to be really good I want this show
to make me laugh I want to make
something I'm proud of I can do that do
you know what I mean like that's that's
inside the Realms of possibility seems
like a much happier psychological world
world to live in to be to live in the
controllables than to be like because
then you when you don't get the ba the
unmet expectation of that person on the
jury that didn't like you yeah it's like
you're right it's like unnecessary
torture yeah we have a closing tradition
on this podcast where the last guests
asks a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're asking it for and
the question that's been left for you is
how will we make progress in solving the
crisis of meaning today oh what an
absolute Stitch
are you joking that's literally what I
[Laughter]
said should I should I I I'll give you
some yeah go cuz I remember oh my God
we're having such a nice
time oh my God you pay it forward and
Stitch up the next person but um
basically the guy was talking about how
life EXP expectancy for for the last two
years has begun to drop and what he
pointed out was that it's it's to do
with a sort of a a
broader epidemic of meaninglessness in
people's lives where they're turning to
opioids suicide and those are the things
are contributing to this crisis of
meaning so he's saying how will we make
progress in solve this crisis of meaning
where people's lives don't feel
meaningful um enough so they're turning
to opioids they're becoming depressed
they you
know Dying by Suicide
he's saying how do we go about solving
that
today well I don't know but what I would
say is one of the things that I noticed
during the the pandemic was like when
people's jobs were taken away or they
couldn't do their jobs
and people weren't able to
socialize people's identities completely
disappeared like they they just didn't
know what they were like you know you go
if I'd not go to my job and I'm not
seeing people I'm not doing things what
the what the hell is this do you know
what I mean and I think that if people
that had other stuff that they could do
I mean creatives were able to like do
stuff and find some purpose and do stuff
not necessarily for con people's
consumption but just to sort of to sort
of scratch that
itch I think if you can get people to to
allow themselves to kind of engage with
things that are outside of this kind of
I'm doing this for this and I'm doing
this if you can get people to to engage
in things that are for their own kind of
enrichment outside of you know outside
of a job and outside of all this then I
think you that's a way of equipping
people sort of more effectively to to
find that I guess would be a freestyle
answer to this I completely agree no I
completely agree we've talked about that
a lot how the Arts and um realizing that
we can all be artists it's not just a
job title um even if you're a lawyer you
can pursue that band or that the
teachers pursuing those bands they're in
um and I can I reflect on the huge
impact it's had on me becoming starting
learning to DJ in the middle of the
pandemic like I'm I did really yeah how
you getting
on you
know I'm not I'm not I'm not going to
sell out any festivals just yeah I did
my first gig the other day I'm [__] but
I'm at like the I'm at the the top end
of [__] yeah got you so how you getting
on I do a hip-hop show on radio well no
well you have a show yeah no but I don't
I don't DJ on the show I just talk and
some like you know I just you know I
don't mix on it okay so they gave me a
challenge I'm just giving I'm just
telling you this so I was learning to DJ
they said they knew I was learning to DJ
so they gave me this piece of paper on
the show saying romish by the end of
this series we want you to do a
20-minute mix for the show right and
then as we were talking about they going
it' be great and then you can do like
regular mixes d d d anyway I went off
and did the 20-minute mix I submitted
the mix they played it I've not been
asked to do another
one that that that that perceived start
of a series of Rish mixes as evaporated
after they heard that first did you
don't ask for feedback no I don't want
feedback they if they if they don't ask
you for another one I don't need that
feedback I know what the feedback is
practice thank you so much for your time
today um huge honor to speak to you and
your story is because of the the way I
can relate to it it's been incredibly
inspiring and I appreciate your honesty
I'm like I said when you were talking
about the voice in your head I literally
my whole body had these Goosebumps and I
felt this huge wave of sadness because I
don't think people realize and people
that have the privilege of having a a
positive voice in their head well we I
don't understand yeah you know I don't
understand that the idea that my my head
can turn against me we need to have that
conversation more because it helps us to
like have empathy yeah yeah you know so
thank you so much no thanks for having
me man um I was really enjoying it up
until that last question
well you can stitch someone up now let's
do this thank you
[Music]
man as some of you will know Intel have
been sponsoring this podcast for a
little while now and this makes the
search for highs speec laptops super
easy because all you have to do is look
for the Intel Evo badge and you'll have
everything you need the thing that's
great about the Intel Evo platform is
that you still have so much choice and
that's key for me there are now over a
100 designs that have been Intel Evo
certified so you can quite find the
perfect laptop for you amongst that vast
selection now I've got two in front of
me here one is the Samsung Galaxy book
360 which rotates over
360° and is amazing for things like team
presentations meetings Etc also really
great for keeping podcast notes on when
you're sat with a guest but I personally
use the Dell XPS because it's
lightweight super lightweight and it's
battery lasts for over 9 hours even
while you have multiple tabs open which
helps to to stay at the pace that I run
out in my day-to-day life so to find out
more and get your hands on your own
Intel Evo laptop head over to intel. uk/
Evo right now let me know how you get on
quick one as you might know crafted are
one of the sponsors of this podcast and
crafted are a jewelry brand and they
make really meaningful pieces of jewelry
the really wonderful thing about crafted
jewelry is it's super affordable it
looks amazing the pieces hold tremendous
meaning and they are really wellmade I
think I've worn this piece for almost a
year it hasn't broken hasn't changed
color because it's really really good
quality and it costs roughly 50 Quid
people will be surprised when they hear
that they' probably assume that all of
my jewelry is like solid gold and cost
thousands and thousands of pounds but
what's the point when you can achieve
the exact same effect from a piece of
jewelry that's high quality and cost 50
Quid that's why I bu crafted
[Music]
oh